♪ Every case in the forest ♪
♪ Is challenging and difficult ♪
♪ Detective Toby and Teri ♪
♪ Will find the answer ♪
♪ We're the best case solvers ♪
♪ Detective Toby and Teri ♪
♪ We are the best partners ♪
LITTLE DETECTIVES
TOBY & TERI
[boing]
All right, Rumy,
you ready for my super-dee-duper
triple spin kick?
[laughs]
Ready.
[yells]
-[gasps]
[Rumy] Oh, no.
Oh, dear.
It's getting dark.
Maybe we should
look for it tomorrow.
We'll be fine.
-[rustling]
-[squeaking]
[gasps]
What was that?
I'm sure it was just the wind.
[both shuddering]
-[loud squeak]
-[both gasp]
[both scream]
[both shiver]
The ball rolled down a hill.
You went to get it,
saw something scary?
It was scary and enormous!
And covered
with fur and feathers.
And breathed fire like a dragon,
shot laser beams
out of its eyes!
I think.
Hmm.
It was definitely tall,
at least ten feet!
And it went,
"Ee-ee-ee-ee-ee, ee-ee!"
[shudders]
The spookiest sound ever.
It's strange.
All the animals in Acorn Springs
are friendly.
Well, this one scared us.
Now I'm too scared
to look for my ball.
Ugh. I guess it's gone forever.
Don't worry, Bean.
We'll figure out what you saw
and get you back your ball.
Sounds like we've got a case.
Will you excuse us?
To the treehouse!
[camera clicks]
Oh, right. We're already here.
We have to figure out
what scared Bean and Rumy.
If we don't, they'll never
go back to get Bean's ball.
There's a lot at stake.
There always is, little brother.
There always is.
Let's do this!
[both snoring]
On second thought,
let's ace this case
first thing in the morning.
[rooster crows]
Bean and Rumy said
the spooky squeaker was tall.
We need to follow the facts
and find a tall animal.
You know why, little brother?
Because that's
what detectives do.
Let's do this.
♪ Looking for clues ♪
♪ Check the scene ♪
♪ Any cases ♪
♪ Little detectives ♪
♪ Can solve it ♪
[together]
Let's ace this case!
-[camera clicks]
-[gasps]
[rustling]
[Toby] Hmm?
[bird] Oh!
No tall animals around here,
Teri.
-Hello there.
-[gasps]
Never mind what I just said.
Good afternoon, sir.
We're looking for a tall animal
that made a unique sound
last night.
Could you please
make a loud noise for us?
[bellows]
That was impressive,
but not very squeaky.
[chews]
Did you say, "Last night"?
Couldn't have been me.
I was sound asleep.
Okay, thanks.
That's when Bean and Rumy
heard the noise,
It must be when
the spooky squeaker is awake.
Animals that are awake at night
are called nocturnal animals...
like possums.
And I know where to find one.
Come on.
[snores]
You said you're looking for--
Maybe a cup of nice hot cocoa
will jog his memory.
[snorts]
Thank you.
Mmm. Hmm.
Oh, where was I?
Oh, the animal you're
looking for doesn't exist.
Nothing in the forest
is ten feet tall and...
squeaks. [snoring]
Now what?
I know they're scared,
but we'd better get
Bean and Rumy back out here.
[Bean] That's where we saw
the ginormously tall thing
with the spooky squeak.
I see Bean and Rumy's
footprints, but not any others.
And you'd expect
a ten-foot-tall creature
to leave pretty big footprints.
Very strange.
Rumy and Bean,
why don't you wait here
while Toby and I search the area
for more clues?
-Okay.
-You got it.
[groans]
This place doesn't seem
that spooky during the day.
My ball is down there somewhere.
Uh, maybe you should come down
off that log.
It looks unstable.
Nah, this log
isn't going anywhere. See?
[both yell]
Bean, hang on, buddy!
[yells]
Whoo-hoo! [laughs]
This is awesome!
[groans]
[Bean laughs]
Whee!
This is amazing!
[laughs]
-Ah.
Look, Rumy.
I think my ball made that mark
and bounced into the cave.
Uh, okay.
But I'm still scared.
Let's go back.
It's light out.
Nothing's gonna happen.
-Let's have a look inside.
-[sighs]
[Bean] Whoa!
It's awesome in here,
so sparkly.
See, Rumy?
There's nothing in here
but you and me and--
-[squeak]
-[gasps]
[squeaks]
[both scream]
[screaming]
I really liked that ball.
Don't worry. We'll get it back.
We just have to follow
the facts.
That's right.
So you only see
the spooky squeaker
-when it's night.
-Or dark, like in the cave.
And it squeaks.
And don't forget
it was this tall
when we saw it by the tree.
-[gasps]
-Hmm?
In the cave, it was this tall!
And when it chased us,
it was this tall
and this tall and this tall!
And-- And it was
flying like this!
Wait. What you saw was flying.
And squeaking.
And lives in a cave.
The spooky squeaker
isn't a great big monster.
It's a little, tiny bat.
Whoa. It still looks spooky.
[Toby] Well, they're not.
Bats are nice,
and they're really good
at finding things in the dark,
like your ball.
Hello in there!
[echo]
[squeaking]
[both yell]
-[bat] Hi.
-[both gasp]
Oh. Hello there.
Do you live in this cave?
Yup. It's really dark,
so it's the perfect place
to snooze the day away.
Hi.
Don't be scared.
I'm not scary. I just eat bugs
and fly around at night.
Why do you make that sound?
Oh, the, "Ee-ee"?
It helps me get around
when it's dark.
Really?
Sure.
The noise bounces off
anything hard,
like rocks and trees,
and when I hear it,
I know where they are.
So it's like
seeing with your ears.
That's exactly right.
Which means she can help you
find your ball,
even in the dark.
Sure I could. Wanna come along?
Yeah!
[nervous laugh]
I'll wait here.
[bat] We'll be right back.
[squeaks]
[bat] Turn left.
Go straight.
Now turn a smidge to the right,
and it should be...
My ball!
[claps]
[Bean] That was cool.
Can we come back to visit?
I would love that!
You can teach us
to play tag in the dark.
That sounds like fun!
Say, "Squeak"!
-Squeak!
[camera clicks]
So when we followed the facts,
it turned out the spooky
squeaker was just a nice bat.
Sometimes spooky things
aren't spooky
once you get to know them.
You're right.
Time to close this case.
♪ Finding clues ♪
♪ We solved the case ♪
♪ Follow the facts ♪
♪ The case is now solved ♪
♪ We are detective Toby and Teri ♪
[together]
The Case of the Spooky Squeak
is officially closed.
[Millie]
These are perfect.
Toby and Teri
are bringing flowers and snacks.
They can all go here.
I can't believe
you're putting on a festival.
I'm super excited.
We have to celebrate our
beautifully clear spring water.
I'm gonna make decorations.
Oh, oh, oh, can I help?!
It's gonna be messy.
Messy? I love messy!
Rumy, do you want to be
in charge of entertainment,
you and Jay?
Oh, yes!
Ah! We'll make up a dance
to the beauty of Acorn Springs.
[laughs]
I can't wait to see it.
[Bean]
Bye, you guys. Have fun.
So what do we do first?
We do what dancers do.
[grunting]
Look at all this food.
The fruit and veggies
will make natural dyes
for our decorations.
Cabbage and grapes
make blue dye...
and berries and beets make red.
What do I do?
Time to stir.
Mm-hmm.
Toby? Haven't you already
read that Bearsky and Hatch?
Just making sure they still make
it to the top of the Matterhorn.
-Can I help you?
-Please.
We need to get these ready
for Millie's festival.
[Jay] Hey!
Toby, Teri, come quick!
It's a disaster!
[both gasp]
[Toby]
Why is it purple?
How did this happen?
We were making up
a dance to the spring,
and I went like this.
[grunting]
And then I went like this.
Hah hah!
[gasps]
[exhales]
It was our dance.
A dance
can't turn the pond purple.
But what did?
We've got to undo it,
or the festival is ruined.
It sounds like we've got a case.
Will you excuse us?
To the treehouse!
[camera clicks]
Millie's festival is all about
how clear and wonderful
the water is in our spring,
but if the pond is purple,
there's nothing to celebrate.
There's a lot at stake.
There always is, little brother.
There always is.
Let's do this.
♪ Looking for clues ♪
♪ Check the scene ♪
♪ Any cases ♪
♪ Little detectives ♪
♪ Can solve it ♪
[together]
Let's ace this case!
[gasps] Sorry.
Gotta water the flowers.
Now let's ace this case.
So how did our pond turn purple?
Something purple must have
gotten in the water, but what?
[Teri]
It could be right around here.
Well, let's look around.
[gasps]
Nothing purple anywhere.
That's a clue.
If the purple
isn't coming from around here,
then it must have gotten
into the water upstream.
[Toby]
The spring!
[Teri]
It's purple, too.
So where does this water
come from?
[Teri]
I don't know.
Water flows downhill.
I guess we're going hiking.
You guys keep practicing
your dance. We'll be back.
We're on it!
I don't see anything purple.
And there's no creeks
or rivers or anything.
So where does
the spring water come from?
I don't know,
but Millie and Bean
are up there
making decorations.
[Teri]
Maybe they saw something.
[Teri] These decorations
for the festival are fantastic.
And messy!
I can see that.
[gasps]
[laughs]
It's okay.
All the colors come
from fruits and vegetables.
Toby! Teri!
You won't believe it!
The pond isn't purple any more!
The pond was purple?!
It was, but it's fine now.
Don't let it do that again.
It's gotta be clear
if we have the festival.
We'd better have a look.
Agreed. Are you coming?
In a second.
We just have to collect
the decorations
-and pour out the dye.
-Okay. See you at the festival.
It was the power of the dance.
A dance wouldn't make
the water clear again.
Does it matter?
The pond is clean.
The case is closed, right?
Hmm.
[camera clicks]
Not until we know
why it happened.
If we don't know what
made the water change color,
we can't stop it
from happening again.
Let's get back to the treehouse
and follow the facts.
Mm-hmm.
To solve the mystery, we just
need to use the clues and--
[gasps]
Hey...
the porch is all wet!
You watered the flowers.
Remember?
Toby, it's a clue!
The water went through the dirt
and out the holes in the pots.
So the top of the flowerpot
is like the meadow.
And the holes in the bottom...
[Toby]
Are the spring!
When we went looking
for where the water came from,
we forgot it
can soak through ground.
So when Millie and Bean
spilled dye in the meadow,
it came out in the spring,
made the pond purple.
But they only used red and blue.
Exactly.
Red and blue dyes make purple.
Oh, no. Millie said
she's gonna pour out the dye
after they finish.
If we don't stop her,
the pond'll be purple
all over again! Come on!
So what do we do with the dye?
Everything is done,
so we can pour it out.
[Teri and Toby]
Stop! Stop!
Did they say, "Hop, hop"?
I think they did.
[laughing]
What are you doing?
You said, "Hop."
We said, "Stop."
Not, "Hop," "Stop."
-Oh!
If you would've poured out
those pots of dye,
they would have turned
the spring purple again.
But how? We're up here,
and Acorn Springs
is way down there.
-It's all connected.
-Anything you spill up here
seeps into the ground
and comes out in the spring.
And when you mix red and blue,
you get a purple pond.
Wow! So what do we do
with the dye?
I've got an idea
about that. Come on.
[Teri]
Everything looks great, Millie.
Thanks, and, Toby,
this fountain is perfect.
Almost as perfect as the spring.
We now present a dance
to celebrate
our wonderful Acorn Springs.
[crowd cheers]
[laughing]
Hey, smile, and say, "Festival"!
-Festival!
[camera clicks]
We followed the facts
and used the clues.
A clean meadow
means clean spring water.
Time to close this case.
♪ Finding clues ♪
♪ We solved the case ♪
♪ Follow the facts ♪
♪ The case is now solved ♪
♪ We are detective Toby and Teri ♪
[together]
The Case of the Purple Pond
is officially closed.